doc: design (#15)
Ekleog/yuubind: book/src/security.md

# Security

## No high privilege - no root

For historical reasons smtpd servers required root privilege to run. This
necessity was explained by several things:

> - the ability to use TCP port 25 on Unix-like systems requires root privilge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the ability to use TCP port 25 on Unix-like systems requires root privilege.
```

>   (on modern Linux at least `CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE` capability is requred)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (on modern Linux at least `CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE` capability is required)
```

- the ability to ignore DAC and write mail to user's directory requries root
  (`CAP_CHOWN` and `CAP_DAC_OVERRIDE`)

> - amusingly, the ability to drop privilege requies root too. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- amusingly, the ability to drop privilege requires root too. 
```

  (to employ privilege separation techniques, e.g. spawn child

>   processes and set their UID and GID to a non-privileged user root or `CAP_SETUID`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  processes and set their UID and GID to a non-privileged user, root or `CAP_SETUID`
```

  and `CAP_SETGID` capabilities are needed)

But all of the above are rudiments of the past.

> It is no longer a catastrophe if an unprivileged process binds to transport
> layer ports less than 1024. Everyone should consider reading and writing the
> network medium as unlimited due to hardware no longer costing a million
> dollars, regardless of what an operating system does.

[Rise and Fall of the Operating System](http://www.fixup.fi/misc/usenix-login-2015/login_oct15_02_kantee.pdf)

The very action of opening TCP port 25 can be delegated to a very small

> privileged program or OS service manager. OS service manager runs with root

Reviewer: ```suggestion
privileged program or OS service manager. OS service managers run with root
```

> privilege anyway. SMTP server can accept the passed descriptor and use it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
privilege anyway. The SMTP server can accept the passed descriptor and use it
```

without ever having to escalate privilege.

> Nowadays people are not logging in to the mail server via ssh to check mail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nowadays people are do not usually login to their mail server via ssh to check their mail.
```

Let's try not to anger people who still do too much :p

Modern mail servers are running MDAs like Dovecot to present an IMAP interface
to the user. Very likely the mail itself is stored in a virtual mailboxes, owned 
by one user (usually `vmail`)

> This practially obsoletes the necessity to support mbox or Maildir in SMTP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This practically obsoletes the necessity to support mbox or Maildir in the SMTP
```

server. Accepted mail can be handed over to MDA via LMTP or piped into another
executable.

One might argue that privilege separation is still necessary to ensure security

> and separation of concerns (even Rust might have volunerabilities discovered in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and separation of concerns (even Rust might have vulnerabilities discovered in
```

the future). But this also can be delegated to the OS's service managers - it 

> the tool that is designed to orchestrate processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is a tool that is designed to orchestrate processes.
```

> All this makes it possible to run SMTP server as a non-privileg user (or set of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All this makes it possible to run the SMTP server as a non-privileged user (or set of 
```
